doc/Signals.rst, before:

Signals
========================

List of signals that you can use to customize your application.
If you want customize your application by using signals, you can
add your own signals, insert in your source code
``tabsignal.emit('name_of_signal', {object})``,
instead of ``name_of_signal``
you can use you custom name of signal, instead of object
you can send object with arguments for functions that subscribe to this signal.
If you need subscribe to signal use ``tabsignal.connect('name_of_signal', function)``,
on ``name_of_signal`` you need insert name of signal for what you want to subscribe,
instead of ``function`` insert function that you need for this signal.
Signals list of  `VST Utils` grouped by milestones.



Get Schema
-------------------------

resourse.loaded
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments: None

    Description: This Signal send after load all static resources

openapi.schema.definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        definitions: definition object

        api: ``object`` contains :doc:`OpenAPI structure <../Schema>`

        name: name of this object

        parent_name: this object parent name

    Description: Signal send in function ```getObjectDefinitionByName```

openapi.schema.definition.[definition]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [definition]: ``string`` contain name of definition

    Arguments:

        definitions: definition object

        name: name of definition

        parent_name: this object parent name

    Description: Signal send in function ```getObjectDefinitionByName```

openapi.loaded
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        api: ``object`` contains :doc:`OpenAPI structure <../Schema>`

    Description: Signal send after static resource load complete. Inside this event can overload openapi answer

Parsing Schema
----------------------

openapi.schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        api: ``object`` contains :doc:`OpenAPI structure <../Schema>`

        schema: ``object`` contains :doc:`gui schema <../Schema>`.

    Description: Signal sends if gui schema don't in cache

openapi.schema.name.[name]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [name]: this is ``string`` contains :doc:`entity <../Schema>` name

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `name` of current object.

openapi.schema.type.[type]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [type]: this is ``string`` contains entity type

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `type` of current object.

openapi.schema.schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: Current path

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema

openapi.schema.schema.[schema]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [schema]: ``string`` contains entity schema

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

        schema: name of one of schema's of this object

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `schema_name` of current object.

openapi.schema.fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

        schema: name of one of schema's of this object

        fields: list of fields of ``schema``

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `fields` of current object.


Render
----------------------------

guiLocalSettings.[name]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [name]: ``string`` contains name of local setting

    Arguments:

        type: http method

        name: name of setting

        value: value for setting

    Description: Signal send after set settings

guiList.renderPage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be rendered

        options: page render options

        data: data of this model object

    Description: using this signal to modify page for render

guiList.renderPage.[bulk_name]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [bulk_name]: ``string`` contains :doc:`bulk name <../Schema>` of rendered page

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be rendered

        options: page render options

        data: data of this model object

    Description: using this signal to modify page for render

    ``guiList.renderLine.[bulk_name]``

    Parameters:

        [bulk_name]: ``string`` contains :doc:`bulk name <../Schema>` of entity

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be render

        dataLine: object that contains data for line

    Description: using this signal to modify lines in list

guiList.renderLine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be render

        dataLine: object that contains data for line

    Description: using this signal to modify lines in list

guiItemFactory.showErrors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        thisObj: object that send bulk request

        api_response: received response from OpenAPI

        query_method: method type that send to OpenAPI

webGui.start
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments: None

    Description: after initialization of web gui can be used to add additional pages

loading.completed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments: None

    Description: Signal send after complete loading all

Examples
---------------------

    .. sourcecode:: javascript

        tabSignal.connect("guiList.renderLine.group", function(obj){

            if(obj.dataLine.line.children)
            {
                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'].hidden = true
                }

                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'].hidden = false
                }
            }
            else
            {
                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'].hidden = false
                }

                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'].hidden = true
                }
            }

        })

    We receive in this signal object and edit options of this object.

    .. sourcecode:: javascript

        tabSignal.connect("openapi.schema.definition.History", addHistoryPrefetchCommon);

    Also we can send function as object to signal

Commit message:

Add description section for new signal
#72
[ci skip]

doc/Signals.rst, after:

Signals
========================

List of signals that you can use to customize your application.
If you want customize your application by using signals, you can
add your own signals, insert in your source code
``tabsignal.emit('name_of_signal', {object})``,
instead of ``name_of_signal``
you can use you custom name of signal, instead of object
you can send object with arguments for functions that subscribe to this signal.
If you need subscribe to signal use ``tabsignal.connect('name_of_signal', function)``,
on ``name_of_signal`` you need insert name of signal for what you want to subscribe,
instead of ``function`` insert function that you need for this signal.
Signals list of  `VST Utils` grouped by milestones.



Get Schema
-------------------------

resourse.loaded
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments: None

    Description: This Signal send after load all static resources

openapi.schema.definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        definitions: definition object

        api: ``object`` contains :doc:`OpenAPI structure <../Schema>`

        name: name of this object

        parent_name: this object parent name

    Description: Signal send in function ```getObjectDefinitionByName```

openapi.schema.definition.[definition]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [definition]: ``string`` contain name of definition

    Arguments:

        definitions: definition object

        name: name of definition

        parent_name: this object parent name

    Description: Signal send in function ```getObjectDefinitionByName```

openapi.loaded
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        api: ``object`` contains :doc:`OpenAPI structure <../Schema>`

    Description: Signal send after static resource load complete. Inside this event can overload openapi answer

Parsing Schema
----------------------

openapi.schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        api: ``object`` contains :doc:`OpenAPI structure <../Schema>`

        schema: ``object`` contains :doc:`gui schema <../Schema>`.

    Description: Signal sends if gui schema don't in cache

openapi.schema.name.[name]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [name]: this is ``string`` contains :doc:`entity <../Schema>` name

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `name` of current object.

openapi.schema.type.[type]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [type]: this is ``string`` contains entity type

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `type` of current object.

openapi.schema.schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: Current path

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema

openapi.schema.schema.[schema]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [schema]: ``string`` contains entity schema

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

        schema: name of one of schema's of this object

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `schema_name` of current object.

openapi.schema.fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        paths: List of all paths from :doc:`guiSchema <../Schema>`

        path: ``string`` variable contains path for current object

        value: schema ``object`` that equivalent to path

        schema: name of one of schema's of this object

        fields: list of fields of ``schema``

    Description: Signal calls after getting gui schema and calls with `fields` of current object.


Render
----------------------------

guiLocalSettings.[name]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [name]: ``string`` contains name of local setting

    Arguments:

        type: http method

        name: name of setting

        value: value for setting

    Description: Signal send after set settings

guiList.renderPage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be rendered

        options: page render options

        data: data of this model object

    Description: using this signal to modify page for render

guiList.renderPage.[bulk_name]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Parameters:

        [bulk_name]: ``string`` contains :doc:`bulk name <../Schema>` of rendered page

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be rendered

        options: page render options

        data: data of this model object

    Description: using this signal to modify page for render

    ``guiList.renderLine.[bulk_name]``

    Parameters:

        [bulk_name]: ``string`` contains :doc:`bulk name <../Schema>` of entity

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be render

        dataLine: object that contains data for line

    Description: using this signal to modify lines in list

guiList.renderLine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        guiObj: object that would be render

        dataLine: object that contains data for line

    Description: using this signal to modify lines in list

guiItemFactory.showErrors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments:

        thisObj: object that send bulk request

        api_response: received response from OpenAPI

        query_method: method type that send to OpenAPI

    Description: this signal can be used to create additional handlers for error message
    for `gui_base_object`

webGui.start
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments: None

    Description: after initialization of web gui can be used to add additional pages

loading.completed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Arguments: None

    Description: Signal send after complete loading all

Examples
---------------------

    .. sourcecode:: javascript

        tabSignal.connect("guiList.renderLine.group", function(obj){

            if(obj.dataLine.line.children)
            {
                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'].hidden = true
                }

                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'].hidden = false
                }
            }
            else
            {
                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['host'].hidden = false
                }

                if(obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'])
                {
                    obj.dataLine.sublinks_l2['group'].hidden = true
                }
            }

        })

    We receive in this signal object and edit options of this object.

    .. sourcecode:: javascript

        tabSignal.connect("openapi.schema.definition.History", addHistoryPrefetchCommon);

    Also we can send function as object to signal
